This document defines the software requirements for the Swift X-Ray Telescope (XRT) Control Processor (XCP) Flight Software (FSW). 
This document is a Level 4 specification as defined in document GSFC-410.4-SPEC-0004,Swift Missions Requirements Document.
The Swift observatory is the next in a series of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) mediumclass explorer (MIDEX) satellites and is the first-of-its-kind observatory for multi-wavelength transient astronomy.
The goal of the Swift mission is to determine the origin of Gamma-Ray Bursts (GRBs) and to exploit data from these bursts to probe the early universe. 
Swift instrumentation will exploit newly discovered GRB afterglow characteristics to make a comprehensive study of approximately 1000 bursts over its planned three-year mission.
Swift will determine the origin of GRBs, reveal how GRB blast waves interact with surroundings, and identify different classes of bursts and associated physical processes. 
To accomplish these mission goals, Swift employs three semi-autonomous science instruments. 
The Burst Alert Telescope (BAT) is a wide-angle x-ray telescope that detects GRBs. 
On detection, the spacecraft slews in the direction of the GRB, bringing it into the view of two narrow-field telescopes for higher-resolution multi-wavelength observation. 
The narrow-field telescopes are the X-Ray Telescope (XRT), and the Ultraviolet/Optical Telescope (UVOT).
The XRT is a sensitive, autonomous X-ray Charge-Coupled Device (CCD) imaging spectrometer designed to measure the flux, spectrum, and light curve of GRBs and afterglow over a wide dynamic range covering more than seven orders of magnitude in flux. 
It will refine the BAT positions (~1-4' uncertainty) to 2.5" within 5 seconds of target acquisition for typical bursts, allowing ground-based optical telescopes to begin immediate spectroscopic observations of the afterglow.
The XRT will reuse some components from the following previous projects: Cosmic Unresolved Background Instrument using CCDs (CUBIC), Imager for Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global Exploration (IMAGE), Joint European X-Ray Telescope (JET-X), and the X-Ray Multi-Mirror (XMM) satellite.
The XRT electronics is split into two parts: the XRT Electronics Package (XEP), and the Camera Head.
A one-meter maximum length cable electrically connects the XEP and Camera Head. 
The XRT Interface Control Document (Pennsylvania State University [PSU] document # XRT-PSU-018) describes the interface between these two components.
The major component of the XRT's electronics is the CCD camera. 
The CCD camera collects science data in the form of images, light curves, photon-counts, and spectral data. 
The CCD camera has three main modes of operation and up to sixty-four modes total.
# 审核到这里啦
The Camera Head is mounted on the telescope tube and is comprised of a CCD and two video preamplifiers.
The CCD itself has an image section, a store section, and two readout registers with video outputs. There are four
synchronized three-phase clocks that shift the pixel rows in the image and store sections and shift the individual
pixels in the two readout registers. The Clock Sequencer in the XEP generates these clocks. Each readout register
has five guard pixels at the output side, and the readout register will not be operated in the split mode; therefore, both
readout registers will be clocked in the same direction transferring all of the pixels to one, but not both, of the video
outputs. Since the readout registers are comprised of split-pixels, the readout registers have to be clocked twice
(double-clocked) to shift out one pixel. The readout registers will be double-clocked an extra 30 times (overclocks)
to produce an output row length of 640 pixels. The clocking of an empty output register produces overclocked
pixels that are used to determine system noise information. To transfer an image from the Image Section to the Store
Section, the Image Section and Store Section three-phase clocks must be clocked simultaneously 602 times. The
Clock Sequencer can be programmed with up to 64 waveform patterns which corresponds to the 64 modes of
operation previously mentioned.
The CCD is cooled by a TEC. The CCD's temperature is closed-loop controlled by the FSW. Telecommands will
control the temperature setpoint, the ramp rate, and the mode — open or closed loop. A digital potentiometer with
100 wiper tap points will control the temperature setpoint. Two digital logic signals will control the wiper position:
the up/down input and the clock input.
The XRT is powered by the S/C by two 28VDC power buses. They are the Operational Power Bus (OPB) and the
Survival Power Bus (SPB). During normal operation, both buses are on. If the XRT fails to communicate to the
S/C, the S/C will turn off the XRT’s OPB, thereby deactivating the XEP. The hardware-reset function is exercised
by cycling the OPB off then back on. The SPB supplies power to heaters that prevent the XRT from being damaged
by low temperatures. The S/C may switch off the SPB, but it will only do this in an emergency condition. The OPB
is dual redundant, and the SPB is single string.
The XRT communicates to the S/C via a dual redundant MIL-STD-1553B serial interface. Data transmitted to the S/
C from the XRT and commands received by the XRT from the S/C are formatted into "packets" within "frames" in
accordance with the Swift 1553 Bus Protocol Interface Control Document (Spectrum Astro document # 1143-EIS19121). The BAT, UVOT, XRT, two Star Trackers, and the S/C are all networked together on the 1553 bus.
A local copy of the spacecraft clock is maintained and is used to timestamp the data packets, which are formatted as
Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS) Source Packets. To synchronize the clocks in the
instruments with the clock in the S/C the S/C provides an At-The-Tone-The-Time-Will-Be message, delivered via
the 1553 interface, and an RS422, One-Pulse-Per-Second (1PPS), hardwired signal that is the "Tone."
The XRT's tube has uses a device called the Telescope Alignment Monitor (TAM) to measure the change in
mechanical alignment of the XRT's tube. The TAM consists of a point source of light that is reflected by mirrors
across the length of the telescope tube to a CCD camera. The change in the telescope's alignment is proportional to
the change in the position of the point source of light shining on the CCD's pixel array. To obtain a resolution better
than the pixel size, a centroid algorithm will be utilized. The TAM receives power from the XEP and delivers image
data through an RS-422 serial interface. The TAM power can be turned on or off by a telecommand.
The XRT has two doors: a telescope tube door and a camera door. The telescope tube door is controlled by the S/C.
The camera door is controlled by circuitry in the XEP. Once opened, the camera door cannot be closed; therefore, it
is important that the door is not inadvertently opened.
The Sun Shutter is powered by the SPB and has its own solar panel for backup power. It is automatically opened
and closed by a photosensor but can be overridden by a telecommand.
The telescope tube has 36 heater groups. Each heater group is closed-loop controlled by the FSW with the
temperature set point and hysteresis controlled by a telecommand. These controllers are simple on-off type with
hysteresis.
The Mirror Baffle has three heater groups: Survival, Control 1, and Control 2. The Survival Heaters are powered
and controlled by the Spacecraft Bus. The Control Heaters are closed-loop controlled by the FSW with a
temperature set point controlled by a telecommand. The Control Heaters will be driven by solid state relays to allow
for the numerous on-off cycles that will be required to regulate the temperature. The XRT Thermal Design
Specification (PSU document # XRT-PSU-012) describes the heaters in greater detail.
This section provides an overview of the FSW including a system context, operational concepts, goals and
constraints, and a list of the computer software components (CSCs) which comprise the FSW. Detailed functional,
performance, error recovery, and interface requirements for the identified CSCs are provided in Appendix A.
From a system (observatory) perspective, the FSW interfaces with the Spacecraft Control Unit (SCU) via the MILSTD-1553B bus and the one pulse per second (1PPS) interface. The interfaces of the FSW in this context are
illustrated in the following figure.
From a XCP hardware interface perspective, the FSW executes on the XCP, stores and retrieves data from XCP
Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), and communicates with the Spacecraft using
the MIL-STD-1553B Bus. The MIL-STD-1553B and Camera Head Interfaces are contained on the XRT
Communications Module (XCM). The interfaces of the FSW in this context are illustrated in the following figure.
The following sections describe the operational concepts of the FSW, including its functions, interfaces, performance
characteristics, error detection, reporting and recovery mechanisms, and ground systems concepts.
Figure 6 and Figure 7 show a detailed flowchart for the observation types. The sequence shown in the figures
assumes the software is in automatic mode and not presently engaged in performing an observation. The sequence
starts when a SISCATTITUDE message is received with the IS_SETTLED indication set to false. The message also
indicates IS_IN_10_ARCMIN, which is true when the S/C is within ten arc minutes of the target position. When the
distance remaining to slew is greater than ten arc minutes, the S/C begins the first of up to three activities that
precede an observation. Each activity is initiated when the distance remaining is greater than ten arc minutes and the
previous activity is complete.
The row bias map is maintained by the system so that it does not have to be recalculated prior to each observation;
however, recalculation is preferred to provide the best results. One frame is acquired for the row bias map. Once the
frame has been acquired, the software recalculates and stores the updated row bias map. Next, the software
recalculates the image bias map, if more than ten arc minutes remain to the target location. The software accumulates
3-6 frames for the recalculation of the row bias map. Otherwise, the existing image bias map is reused. Finally, if the
acquire raw data image flag is true and the distance to the target location is more than ten arc minutes, then the
software acquires a single raw data image which is saved for later download to the ground.
At this point, the S/C has come to within ten arc minutes of the target or the observation preliminary activities are
complete, and the software switches to the fast timing mode. When the SISCATTITUDE message indicates that the
S/C is settled, the software starts the main portion of the observation sequence.
The software now acquires a frame of data and begins counting the pixels above a detection threshold. To be
considered of interest, this count of pixels must exceed a programmable threshold. If the count does not exceed the
threshold, then another image is acquired and summed with the first image. This new image is subjected to the pixel
count. This process continues until the count threshold is met or the timeout period is exceeded. If the timeout is
exceeded, an “XRT Centroid Error” message is transmitted to UVOT and to the ground (via TDRSS). Otherwise,
when the source is detected, the software performs a centroid calculation on the image. If the centroid calculation
fails, an “XRT Centroid Error” message is sent; otherwise, an “XRT Position” message is sent.
Next, the software enters the fast timing mode. In this mode, the CCD reports a single value representing the entire
image. The CCD reports one pixel every 16 µsec, or approximately 60,000 pixels/sec. The software remains in this
mode while the lit pixel rate exceeds 40 cps. Once the count falls below 40 cps, the software switches to normal
timing mode. In this mode, the CCD reports one row every 5 msec. Each row report sums up the CCD columns.
This method is used until the rate drops below 2 cps. At this point, the software switches to photon counting mode.
In this mode, the entire image is collected and scanned for lit pixels. The update rate is approximately once every
2.5 sec. The observation sequence ends when the target is occulted and the S/C slews to a new target.
Preplanned observations differ from automatic ones in that the “XRT Position” message is not used. Processing is
otherwise similar. The target of opportunity observations are treated like preplanned observations from an
operational point of view of the software.
The FSW has the following states: Off, Boot, Init, Manual, Red, and Auto. The following diagram illustrates these
states and their transitions.